---
title: "Kafka"
date: 2022-02-28
---

### What is Kafka?
kafka is a queuing system that support publisher-subscriber model. It also support persistence of messages and replay of messages. Kafka also support multiple publisher and multiple subscriber for same topic. It allow SQL aggregation like group by, join etc. It allow manupulating of streams in real time. Kafka provides various guarantees such as the ability to process events exactly-once.

### What is an event?
An event is a record of the fact that something happened in our business world. We generally call it a message or record.  
A Kafka event consist of key, value and a timestamp.
Eg : {"key" : "Ram", "value" : "Made a payment to Shyam $100", "timestamp" : 1648614379000}

#### Event Devlivery guareentees in Kafka
1. At most once : Event may be lost but are never redelivered.
2. At least once : Event are never lost but may be redelivered.
3. Exactly once : this is what people actually want, each message is delivered once and only once.

### What is a Topic in Kafka?
A topic is a way to organise all the events into multiple categories like a file in a folder. Zero, one or more producers can publish events to a single topic and zero, one or more clients can subscribe to a topic. Topics are partitioned in kafka, mening they are distributed accross different buckets for multiple read-write at a time. Events with same event key (eg: customerId, vehicleId) are written to same partition and their order is preserved.

### What is a broker in kafka?
Broker stores the messages in kafka.

### What is Kafka connect?
It enable continuous import/export of streams with external systems.

### How does Kafka Works?
Kafka is a distributed system consisting of servers and clients that communicate via a high-performance TCP network protocol. It can be deployed on bare-metal hardware, virtual machines, and containers in on-premise as well as cloud environments. 

### Persistence in Kafka?
Kafka persists data directly on disks. They use sequential reads and writes to achieve very high throughput. Also, they transform the data into bytes at client side only, this makes it even more performant. In normal application, The data is fetched from disk to kernel cahedpages then it is transferred to application buffer then the application pushes this data back to kernal IO buffer and then kernel sends the data to consumers. But in Kafka, OS directly reads and sends data to consumer hence making it a lot faster.

### Kafka APIs
1. Admin API - To manage and inspect topics, brokers and other Kafka topics.
2. Producer API - To publish a stream of events to 1 or more topics
3. Consumer API - To subscribe and read data from topics.
4. Streams API - It is used to achieve realtime stream processing. It provide high level functions like transformation, stateful operations like aggregations and joins, windowing, processing based on event-time, and more.
5. Connect API - It provides connectors to external system like DB, S3 etc. to get event streams from them

##### Credits :  
1. [Apache Kafka Documentation](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#gettingStarted)
